Welcome back.
Let's continue from our previous video to talk about a more advanced workflow and get and GitHub.
Now, up to this point, both Marcy and I have just been working on over here, branch master.
What does that mean?
Well, it says branches, but I only see master here.
And you might have noticed one issue with the way that we were doing things.
That is if it's my first day on the job and I just changed the title.
But maybe we don't even want that change.
Maybe that breaks our branding or breaks our app.
But I was able to do it so easily to change it into m. maybe Marsi didn't even know that I've added
that change and that's a big problem, right?
You don't want to put things into what we call production, into what the user sees.
If it's going to break our website.
If you're a big company like Facebook, that could mean millions of dollars in lost revenue, even if
you have a bug that lasts a few hours.
So I'm going to show you a more realistic workflow that you'll have, and that is with branching.
No, show you what I mean.
I have over here a visual of what it is really, really good at.
Up until now, we've been working on what we call master, that is the master branch.
Think of the master branch as the authority.
This is the right way that our app or our website should look.
And up until now, when I did the cool background title, well, I went from a background generator
to cool generator.
And then when Marsi changed it to capitalized letters, then we went to here and we just went in a linear
fashion from one end to the other, to the other to the other.
But like I said, that is a bit of a problem.
So a better thing to do is what we call branching.
If I wanted to change the title, I will create a branch and just call it little feature, for example,
and I just work on that branch on my own without affecting the master branch, what the user sees.
Only when it's finished, when Marsi has reviewed it, when we have tested it and everybody on the team
is OK, then we bring it back into M..
And you can see over here with the big feature, you can keep going for a long time on your own branch
and only when you're done do what we call merge into M..
I'm going to show you how that works today.
I'm going to close this and remember our example, we have Marcy's computer here with all the files
and we have my computer here with all the files.
We both have our workstation set up.
And now you see what master in my terminal means, and I'll show you in the notes afterwards how you
can have this set up so it tells you what branch you're on.
But we can see that we're both on M..
That's my computer.
And Marcy's computer is also an M. We want to make sure that we're both up to date with the latest GitHub.
So Marcy's going to do get pull and I'm also going to do get pull.
And let's say that I'm now working on a new feature, and because it's a better workflow not to work
on master and this is a good tip, generally don't work on master, always branch off.
If I do get Branch, they'll show me that, well, I only have one branch and that is master, but we
can add to it.
We can say get branch new or little feature.
And now if I do get Branch.
I see that I have little feature, but master is highlighted because I'm currently a master, so the
way I would go to the little feature branch, I'll say get Check-Out.
Little feature.
And there you go, switch to branch little feature, and now I'm on a little feature branch.
So what I've done is I've branched off of M. and now created a little feature.
Let's create a bit of a change, I'm going to say in the little feature, we're going to change the
current access background title to say this is the background.
I'm going to safe here, and again, I do my simple workflow that we did in the last video get status.
I see that we have the index that a small change to clear so we can see.
So now that we've made this change, let's do get add.
And again, just get status to make sure everything went through.
Yeah, we're ready to commit indexable so we'll get commit message will be changing.
Text.
Perfect.
Let's clear that and now again, in order to let GitHub know of the changes we need to do, get push,
so we'll do get push.
All right, let's go to GitHub and see what happened.
We see that now we have this yellow bar that just showed up and says you recently pushed branches.
So if I click on this green button here, compare, pull request.
It shows me what changes I have, which is I've changed the title and here I can let Marcy know, saying,
Marci, I've changed the text.
What do you think?
And I click on Create a Pull request.
And now I have my PR and you see here how says Mersch pull requests?
Well, if we go back to our diagram, I've created this little feature and now I'm saying, hey, Marci,
I've just done this new change.
What do you think?
Is it OK for me to merge it into M..
And what will happen here most likely is Marci's will come see this pull request.
You can see that we're on the pull request, ABSs, so she'll be able to see them.
And seeing Andray just did this change.
She'll look through the changes.
And she'll say, hmm, well, if she likes this, she could be like, looks good, she can click on
start a review and you know, she likes this.
So she's just going to approve.
Now, Marsi or myself, usually you don't want to merge your own pull requests, somebody on the team
does.
It can now just say March, pull, request, confirm, merge.
Sometimes like deleting the branch after so you can just click delete here.
If I go back to the code.
Well, I don't have the branches anymore because I just deleted it, but in my master, if I go to index
out Simmel, I see this is the background.
So now Marci can go to her project and say, get pool.
She has the latest update.
Now, let's talk about some conflicts that can arise now, let's say Marsi wants to change something
and I also change the same thing and we get our Mirch conflict.
Let's see what happens.
So let's say Marsing wants to change, create a new feature saying we'll call this one big feature.
And she'll say, get Check-Out or get Branch big feature.
She'll say, get check out big feature.
And if I do get Branch, we see that there's a new branch here.
Let's clear that and she'll say here that she wants to change this back to background, color or background
generator, because all the users are complaining that the title changed and they like the old title.
So she's changed that.
She has done the get add.
Get commit.
Reverting back to old title.
Perfect, and then she's going to do get push.
Let's clear that first, actually, and we do get push.
First time you get this, you might get this error saying that there's no upstream, you just copy the
code that they give you here.
Perfect.
Now, if I go back.
The background generator, I see the big feature pull request over here.
And just to show you that you can have multiple comments, let's say Marcy decides to oh, this is me,
Marcy decides to add an exclamation point here.
She can just say again, she saves this.
That's clear.
And she'll say, get ad.
Get commit, you do this a lot, so you get really, really good to get after working in a company for
a while and she'll say added X exclamation.
Oops, that's not what I want to do, get commit.
Added exclamation.
And she'll do get push again.
And let's go back to get help.
If we look at the pool request, they'll actually have both of these reverting back to all title and
added exclamation, and we see over here both of the changes create the pool request needs changes.
Andre.
So while this poor request is out there.
I decided to start a new branch called let's just call it conflict for now.
And I'll get Check-Out conflict.
And now in the conflict branch.
I decide to change.
This to just completely remove the coal generator.
I say that.
Again, I check my status and index that my file has been changed.
So while this is happening, I get Marcy to merge, to pull request.
So she's entered into Mascia.
Her request is in.
And now if I go back to my conflict, I do get a status.
And we have to add these, so get add and get commit to a short message here, just check.
And now if I go back to M..
Oh, I have to do get checkout master again before I push my changes, I want to make sure that I have
the latest version of a master so I'm not changing anything.
I won't have any conflicts.
So I'll do get pull to get the latest.
And now I go to get checkout.
Conflict branch.
And I can do this comment get.
Merge.
M. So I'm saying merge whatever is a master into conflict.
Marcy has been working on the big feature and she's merged it, so now Master has the big feature branch.
I've also created another branch and I've been working on my own on the conflict branch.
And the conflict branch doesn't know anything about masochism, saying, hey, whatever is a master
right now, which includes the big feature that Marsi worked on, pull it in and make sure that there's
no conflict.
So I do that.
And oh, I get conflict, Merche conflict and index, not Mafa.
Now, if I actually click on Sublime Text, let me open this up so you can see a better.
Oh, boy, I get this weird little syntax.
It's overwhelming at first, but it's easy to see what happening head is where my branch is at and it
shows me that here to the end I don't have the H1 anymore.
But in the master branch, we have a background generator.
Now I can talk to Marcy and say, hey, Marcy, do you want to keep that back on generator title?
And she'll say, yes, that was the right thing to do.
Don't change the background.
Well, in that case, I just remove these lines.
And remove this.
And save now if I do get.
Status now.
OK, we have the modified status here.
Let me just make this smaller again so you can see let me clear this.
What we do now is we have to do get add again because we made those changes and we have to do get comet
fixing merge issue.
And I forgot the let's try that again.
Conflict fixing marriage issue that's clear here and get status.
Nothing to compare working to clean, and if I do get push, well, again, I get this error, but I
want to show you this time around if I do get the push origin conflict.
It now works, let's go back to GitHub.
See what sort of things we have, we have the conflict branch, and if we look at the conflict branch
now, well, there's nothing changed because, well, I just reverted all my changes.
So it's completely empty.
There's no changes now.
So Marcio would be like, hey, did you mean to to make this picture?
It's empty.
All see this message on my part and I can keep going, and that's pretty much the workflow that you'll
see and get.
I'll leave the commands for you after this.
But you see, it's very, very nice to work with you learn a few commands, and as long as you have
this visual model of every time you're working on something, you always create a branch.
You title it with whatever feature you're working on.
And every once in a while you want to pull master and merge master into your branch to make sure that
you're not missing out on any updates that other developers or teammates have done.
Once you're done with your feature, you make a pull request by doing get push and that pull request
your add comments and people will review your file changes.
And if they want you to make a few changes, then you can do again, get add, get commit, finally
make your changes and then you can merge, pull request.
And once that's done, then everybody else on the team, there's now a new master.
So everybody else on the team should do get pull as well.
It does takes a bit of time to get used to, but is a really, really nice workflow to make sure that
everybody on the team works on the same file, same projects, without causing any errors and making
sure that everybody collaborates well.
And that's it, I hope you find this useful.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.